Elasticsearch can be used to search all kinds of documents.
Elasticsearch is a highly scalable open-source full-text search and analytics engine. It allows you to store, search, and analyze big volumes of data quickly and in near real time. It is generally used as the underlying engine/technology that powers applications that have complex search features and requirements.
Initially released in 2010, Elasticsearch (sometimes dubbed ES) is a modern search and analytics engine which is based on Apache Lucene. Completely open source and built with Java
 Elasticsearch is a NoSQL database. That means it stores data in an unstructured way and that you cannot use SQL to query it.
Why is Elasticsearch so fast?
 It is able to achieve fast search responses because, instead of searching the text directly, it searches an index instead.
Why use Elasticsearch instead of SQL?
You want Elasticsearch when you're doing a lot of text search, where traditional RDBMS databases are not performing really well (poor configuration, acts as a black-box, poor performance). Elasticsearch is highly customizable, extendable through plugins. You can build robust search without much knowledge quite fast
why is Elasticsearch so successful? This is because : ElasticSearch enable users to search various fields by using a single query. ElasticSearch provide great level of sharding, means horizontal scalability, which enhances the performance even with increase of load.
Is Elasticsearch expensive?
Elasticsearch is a database, so costs scale linearly with data. Storing all of your logs in Elasticsearch is very easy to do and will not require any kind of custom coding, especially if you're already using Logstash. ... Basically, database storage is expensive.
 Elasticsearch is a great tool for document indexing and powerful full text search. Its JSON based Domain Specific query Language (DSL) is simple and powerful, making it the defacto standard for search integration in any web app.
What is the difference between MongoDB and ElasticSearch?
MongoDB is a general purpose database, Elasticsearch is a distributed text search engine backed by Lucene. ... In practice, ElasticSearch is often used together with NoSQL and SQL databases, where database is used as persistent storage, and ElasticSearch is used for doing complex search queries, based on data content.
Is Elasticsearch a NoSQL database?
Elasticsearch is a full-text, distributed NoSQL database. In other words, it uses documents rather than schema or tables. It's a free, open source tool that allows for real-time searching and analyzing of your data.
Where is Elasticsearch data stored?
According to the documentation the data is stored in a folder called "data" in the elastic search root directory. The config and logs directories are siblings of data .
Is Elasticsearch in memory?
Elasticsearch uses file system storage by default. ... Storing directly in memory can also cause memory bottlenecks for other OS processes (like garbage collection) and impact negatively on performance. That's why memory storage option was removed from Elasticsearch 2
Is Elasticsearch Big Data?
Elasticsearch is the main product of a company called 'Elastic'. It is used for web search, log analysis, and big data analytics. ... Elasticsearch is more popular because it is easy to install, scales out to hundreds of nodes with no additional software, and is easy to work with due to its built-in REST API.
What is the difference between text and keyword in Elasticsearch?
The primary difference between the text datatype and the keyword datatype is that text fields are analyzed at the time of indexing, and keyword fields are not. What that means is, text fields are broken down into their individual terms at indexing to allow for partial matching, while keyword fields are indexed as is.
What is Elasticsearch in layman's terms?
Elasticsearch is an open source search engine highly scalable. It allows you to keep and analyse a great volume of information practically in real time. Elasticsearch works with JSON documents files. Using an internal structure, it can parse your data in almost real time to search for the information you need
Is Elasticsearch a data store?
By default, Elasticsearch keeps a copy of all the JSON documents you offer it for indexing in a field called _source . You get a copy of this stored data on each query that matches the document. So yes: you are able to store your data in Elasticsearch and retrieve it too. It's a document store as well
How do you test elastic search?
Testing the Install

Once you have Elasticsearch installed and running on your local machine, you can test to see that it's up and running with a tool like curl. By default, Elasticsearch will be running on port 9200. Typically the machine will have a name like localhost 

General Features
The general features of Elasticsearch are as follows −

Elasticsearch is scalable up to petabytes of structured and unstructured data.

Elasticsearch can be used as a replacement of document stores like MongoDB and RavenDB.

Elasticsearch uses denormalization to improve the search performance.

Elasticsearch is one of the popular enterprise search engines, and is currently being used by many big organizations like Wikipedia, The Guardian, StackOverflow, GitHub etc.

Elasticsearch is an open source and available under the Apache license version 2.0.

 what is  node

Any time that you start an instance of Elasticsearch, you are starting a node. A collection of connected nodes is called a cluster. If you are running a single node of Elasticsearch, then you have a cluster of one node. Every node in the cluster can handle HTTP and Transport traffic by default.


Elasticsearch allows you to store, search, and analyze huge volumes of data quickly and in near real-time and give back answers in milliseconds. It’s able to achieve fast search responses because instead of searching the text directly, it searches an index. It uses a structure based on documents instead of tables and schemas and comes with extensive REST APIs for storing and searching the data. At its core, you can think of Elasticsearch as a server that can process JSON requests and give you back JSON data.




















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































