but before they touch the relationship they use the is_following() supporting method to make sure the requested action makes sense. For example, if I ask user1 to follow user2, but it turns out that this following relationship already exists in the database,

This kind of work is what relational databases excel at.
This is actually an awful solution that does not scale well.
then let the database figure out how to extract that information in the most efficient way.

because I'm not going to be as detailed as I normally am with the Python side

We can access as much or as little as we need.

It's also a good time to catch up on life and discuss any random thing.("Hey, did you catch the game last night?") Kick the day off with some human interaction and set a positive tone for the day.
Virtual – Not physically existing as such but made by software to appear to do so.
A virtual classroom is a learning environment in which students (customers, partners, or any third-party) engage with the lesson material online. Information is often conveyed through voice or video conferencing with several participants and instructors connected to the same chat interface.


What is the meaning of virtual image?
: an image (such as one seen in a plane mirror) formed of points from which divergent rays (as of light) seem to emanate without actually doing so.

There are no up-front investments required


there are a lot less reasons to keep the application global.


The obvious place to use this function 

despite its complexity and rather terse beginnings


Sound good? Then let’s get started
clickbait (on the Internet) content whose main purpose is to attract attention and encourage visitors to click on a link to a particular web page.
But you can get pretty close in about 25 minutes.

The way they handle this is wildly different because of what they're used for.

you can tack on the g object some value.. like g['foo'] = 'bar'. 


 but the contextmanager ises ContextDecorator so the context managers it creates can be used as decorators as well as in with statements.


this will be definetely life saver in my opinion

master branch is always clean, means ready to ship

when a company is looking for some specific traits.
can steer the interview into a wrong direction.
Even though they will tell you that the session went well,
But that might also turn against you. 
Be short, but detailed enough.





























































































































