Version Control System (VCS) is a software that helps software developers to work together and maintain a complete history of their work.Following are the types of VCS −

Centralized version control system (CVCS).
Distributed/Decentralized version control system (DVCS).

 Git falls under distributed version control system.
In Git, files are not addressed by names. Everything is content-addressed.

There are four fundamental elements in the Git Workflow.
Working Directory, Staging Area, Local Repository and Remote Repository.

If you consider a file in your Working Directory, it can be in three possible states.

It can be staged. Which means the files with the updated changes are marked to be committed to the local repository but not yet committed.
It can be modified. Which means the files with the updated changes are not yet stored in the local repository.
It can be committed. Which means that the changes you made to your file are safely stored in the local repository.
git add is a command used to add a file that is in the working directory to the staging area.
git commit is a command used to add all files that are staged to the local repository.
git push is a command used to add all committed files in the local repository to the remote repository. So in the remote repository, all files and changes will be visible to anyone with access to the remote repository.
git fetch is a command used to get files from the remote repository to the local repository but not into the working directory.
git merge is a command used to get the files from the local repository into the working directory.
git pull is command used to get files from the remote repository directly into the working directory. It is equivalent to a git fetch and a git merge .



What is a proxy server?
A proxy server, or just proxy for short, is like having another computer that your internet requests get sent to before going to the real website. It's a server that takes all of the information you've sent outand routes it through a different IP address.
A proxy can be physically located anywhere. You can set up a proxy on your home computer or you can deploy one to the cloud. The main thing that matters is that the proxy has the configurations you need for the functionality you want.


https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-First-Time-Git-Setup









































































































































































