jupyter notebook is a web application that allows you to run live code, embed visualization and explanatory text all in one place.
Anoconda is a bundle of some python packages and a package manager called conda (similar to pip)
some of the popular anaconda packages are, numpy,scipy,jupyter,nltk,scikitlearnm etc.
Conda is a package manager similar to pip. conda allows you to install non-python  library dependencies such as HDF5,MKL, etc.
with pip you can only install python dependencies.
With anaconda installation you will see many useful packages


what is data science
Data Science or data analytics  is a process of analyzing large set of data points to get answers on questions related to that data set.
pandas is python module that makes data science easy and effective.
process of cleaning messy data is called data munging or data wrangling.
Dataframe is a main object in pandas. It is used to represent data with rows and columns (tabular or excel spreadsheet like data)

Installling anaconda
go to google and type download anaconda..
download the zip on the system by going to the site



 




PANDAS
=========

1.High performance efficient data analsys tool. 
it happens with the 3 data structures
a. series --> data represented in one dimensional.-->list as an argument
b. dataframe --->  two dimensional  --> we can pass list or dictinary or series or another data frame.
c. panel   --->data , major-axis(columns) , minor axis(rows)
2.Working with large  data sets.
3.supports or load files with different formats.
4.more flexible to use.
5.Represents data in tabular way(rows and columns) to analyze the data.
6.more efficient to work with a missing data.
7. it supports indexing, slicing , subsetting the large datasets.
8. we can merge or join two different datasets easily.
9. we can also the reshape the datasets.


Dataframe(df)
load the data from excel files
load the data from csv files
create df using dictionary
create df using list and tuples





















































































